[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So, there are so
many ways to do this password
process with Express and Mongo.
So many ways,
I don't think there is a right way.
You can make a middle ware globally,
you can put one on the route.
You can put one on the router,
you can jut have a utility function
that you require and use everywhere.
There's so
many ways you can do this one thing.
But Mongoose allows us
to teach our models and
our documents new tricks by
adding custom functions to them.
And this is where we're gonna do it.
Because it makes sense to do it,
to me at least, on the actual models.
Because those are the things that
are gonna save the password.
So instead of having express or
node know about hashing passwords.
I should just tell all my models about it,
like,
hey, you know how to hash a password,
hash yourself, or
check yourself versus, node,
check this password on this model.
All right, so just check yourself and
tell me if you're right.
So, to teach Mongoose about new tricks
there's a couple ways we can do it.
So, when we have our schema object
that we create we can use the .methods
property and that's going to be an object,
and we can just make functions on it.
This is like the equivalent of like
calling function.prototype.whatever.
It's like adding stuff to
the prototype of the dog.
That's what methods is, it's adding to the
prototype cuz these functions that we're
making, these instances or
these methods, are gonna be only
available to the instances, not the dog
itself but only the instance of a dog.
So, just like .push on an array is not
available to the array constructor but
it is available to array instances.
So I can't say array.push.
>> Speaker 1: Or, let me try to call it.
That's not a function,
because push is not part of the
constructor, it's part of the instance.
So I can say give me an instance of an
array and call push, and that will work.
>> Speaker 1: So it's the same thing.
>> Speaker 1: That's what
the methods object does,
the inverse is the statics object.
And statics is like adding
it to the static property
>> Speaker 1: So, again, for
inside of methods and we come to the log
this, it will be the current document.
If we're inside of a static method
this is gonna be actually the constructor,
the dog.
So that's the equivalent of doing this.
So I just gave an example of like,
you can't do array.push cuz that's
an instance method, or prototype method.
But, what we could do, array has its
own methods, like Array.isArray.
That belongs to the array constructor,
but it doesn't belong to the instance.
So, if I said Array.isArray.
That doesn't work.
Because
it doesn't belong to
the instance of a raise.
It only belongs to the constructor itself.
It's the same thing.
So statics belong to the dog model.
Methods belong to the dog instances.
So, if we wanted a dog to bark,
like, hey dog, bark.
We'd put it on the instance,
like we'd put it on the methods,
like, can you just go bark?
If we wanted all dogs to be able to do
something, like, I want all dogs to
be able to, or I want to be able
to find all dogs by their owner.
Here, I have that here.
So, I can make a new method on here.
So I can say dog.findbyowner.
I give it the owner's name and
it'll find it.
So I could do that.
Any questions on that?
>> Speaker 1: Again,
this is with Mongoose, not Mongo.
Mongoose is allowing us to do this.
>> Speaker 1: So Mongoose, like Express,
also has support for middleware.
And middleware is perfect for
validating, changing, notifying, etc.
It's the same use cases that you
would use in middleware in Express.
But just now we have
middleware on our models.
And these middleware, they tie into the
life cycle events around our documents.
So when I say life cycle events,
I mean things like I wanna be notified
before something saves or after something
saves or before something is validated or
after something's created or
after something was removed.
We can create middle wear to
attach those life cycle events and
will notify us about it.
Okay.
Hey something's about to save here.
You can do something right quick if you
want to Or something just got removed.
You wanna do something
that's what allows us to do.
So we'll use middle way to hash
our passwords before users created
these in appropriate place to do it.
You can, like I said you can this in so
may places.
You just have a function that
you just call throughout your,
I mean you can do it
inside the controller,
I don't think it'd be the best
place to do it but you could.
But we're just going to do
it inside of our middleware.
So the way middleware looks in mongoose,
so
again on the schema you
either do a .post or .pre.
Post means after this event, and
pre means before this event.
You can go look at the docs they have
tons of Hooks you can hook into.
So here's an example of me wanting to run
a call back after a dog has been saved.
So, dog.post,
that means after dog has been saved.
Run this function.
So, anytime a dog has been save, and
I think save only runs on create.
It doesn't run on update.
So if you updated something I
don't think that counts as a save.
So, what I can do is, okay, assume that
this socket is a web socket library.
I can just send an event
to the client who's like,
hey, I'm notifying you about a change so
that way you're getting real time
updates whenever dog is being changed.
Whenever somebody else in the world
adds a new dog to our database
All the clients get updated about it.
So, this is where you'd
do something about it.
And then, of course, just like Express,
you'd have to call next to
go onto the next middleware.
And just like Express,
you pass in the error object here,
it will pass in the error and log it out.
>> [NOISE].
>> Speaker 1: Here's an example of how we
can tie into a callback function before
our model is validated.
All right.
So we, we set up all those validations
on our models, like required, unique.
Min length, max length,
this will happen before Mongoose
ties into those validations.
So maybe you have a validation of,
like we were talking about yesterday,
you were saying, RegExes.
So you can do those RegExes right here.
It's like, all right,
this is where I'm gonna test.
I wanna make sure that it files this, or
I wanna make sure that It's all
lower case or something like that.
So you would do stuff like this.
And you get access to the document
just by calling this.
So when you say this,
they'll get the doggy.
So then you like all right,
doggy.name.test, this regex,
or.match this regex.
And then of course
you've got to call next.
If you don't call next it'll hang
>> Speaker 1: Any questions on that?
It's like the same thing
as Express middleware.
It just ties into hooks.
>> Speaker 1: So, when you call next,
it just goes to the next hook.
Not the next middleware that you made.
It just goes to the next hook.
So, for instance,
pre-validate runs before presave,
so prevalidate you'll do your stuff,
call next, then it'll go to presave,
you can do some stuff, then it'll call X,
then it might go to post save,
you'll do some stuff, so all three of
those are one time a document will save.
>> Speaker 1: Cool, any questions on this?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: So, this is all
still running in our Express environment,
right?
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: It's not like this
is running in some separate thing, or.
>> Speaker 1: Nope.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, you should see it,
like right now.
>> Speaker 2: So, that omit,
we could tie some other code to that,
and when that gets omitted, we.
We subscribe, right?
>> Speaker 1: Yep.
It's all in.
Great, so now that we know that,
we need to do a couple things.
So first, let's check out to step ten?
Yeah.
Yeah, question.
>> Speaker 2: Do we need to do
input senatization for mongoose?
And would you do it in the .pre?
>> Speaker 1: The way to do what?
>> Speaker 2: Input sanitization.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
So,
again, that's something I
would totally do on a as well.
So would totally sanitize stuff on the
front and the first but then as a back up,
yes, you would totally do it And something
like, what are these middlewares exactly?
Anytime you need to check or
alter or verify something on a model
before it gets processed on a database,
this is the perfect place to do it.
But again, you also could do it
in a mongoose, like express.
There is nothing stopping
you from doing it there.
It just.
I just think this is not
the appropriate place to do it.
>> Speaker 2: And then,
this was a little while back but
is there a recommended NPM module for
handling auth rules and Passport js?
Was brought up.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
passport js is definitely the go to.
That's like the think.
We're not gonna use password today,
I use password all
the time, but we're not gonna use it today
because I want you just make it yourself
cause it's not that
hard to do it yourself.
But yeah, if I were going to use
authorization rules in note,
I would totally use passport js.